Update Alloy tutorials (#1257)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/tutorials/send-logs-to-loki.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/send-logs-to-loki/
aliases:
  - ./get-started/ #/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/get-started/
description: Learn how to use Grafana Alloy to send logs to Loki
menuTitle: Send logs to Loki
title: Use Grafana Alloy to send logs to Loki
weight: 100
---

## Use {{% param "FULL_PRODUCT_NAME" %}} to send logs to Loki

> This tutorial shows you how to configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} to collect logs from your local machine, filter non-essential log lines, send them to Loki, and use a Grafana dashboard to query and visualize the results.

Reviewer: I don't think we use a Grafana dashboard during these tutorials, rather the Explore feature. Not sure if we need to be that precise, but wanted to point it out.

Author: Good point. I'll update the wording here to say "explore the results'.

> This tutorial shows you how to configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} to collect logs from your local computer, filter non-essential log lines, send them to Loki, and use a Grafana dashboard to query and visualize the results.

Reviewer 2: I would leave the term local machine here rather than changing it to a local computer. 

Our readers have diverse setups which may include computers, work stations, servers, mobile devices, and development boards. 

The term local machine captures all of these.

      - "3000:3000"
```

Run `docker compose up` to start your Docker container and open <http://localhost:3000> in your browser to view the Grafana UI.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> If you the following error when you start your Docker container, `docker: 'compose' is not a docker command`, use the command `docker-compose up` to start your Docker container.

Reviewer 2: Change this sentence to "If you encounter the following..."

{{< /admonition >}}

## Configure {{% param "PRODUCT_NAME" %}}

> After the local Grafana instance is setup, the next step is to configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.

Reviewer: I think this should be `set up`? As I understand it `set up` is the verb and `setup` is the noun.
```suggestion
After the local Grafana instance is set up, the next step is to configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.
```
